=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

mrlist - inspect and modify Moira lists.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Moira lists are used for multiple purposes. Depending upon how the list is
set up, it may be exposed as a mailing list, as an AFS group and as a Unix group.
See documentation of the B<set> command for more information.

There are five types of entities which may be presented in the list: users, lists,
Kerberos principals, strings (which work as email addresses and as comments) and
hosts. In order to explicitly specify the type of the member, you should prefix it
with "I<user:>", "I<list:>", "I<string:>", "I<kerberos:>" and "I<machine:>", otherwise
the program will attempt to determine the type itself. Note that all Kerberos principals
will be by default attributed to ATHENA.MIT.EDU realm.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<add> I<list> I<member>

Adds the member into the list

=item B<expand> [-l] [-t] [-v] I<list>

Read the members of the specified list and recursively expand all the sublists
in order to find the list of members which actually belong to that list. If
I<-t> option is specified, the nesting paths through which the user is included
are computed and displayed (note that the list is shortened unless I<-v> key is
specified as well). If I<-l> key is specified, the sublists encountered through
the expansion are also displayed.

=item B<info> I<list>

Retrieve the information about the given list.

=item B<inverse> [-r] I<member>

Show all the lists in which the member is in. If I<-r> is
specified, also shows the lists in which the user is by virtue of
being in the other lists.

=item B<members> [-v] I<list>

Show all the members included in the specified list. If I<-v> is
specified, the tags of the members are also displayed.

=item B<ownerships> [-r] I<name>

List all the items which the user owns. If the I<-r> flag is specified,
the items which user own through membership in lists are also displated.

=item B<remove> [-r|--reason I<reason>] I<list> I<member>

Removes a member from the specified list. If I<reason> is specified,
adds a string entry noting the date and reason why member was deleted.

=item B<rename> I<oldname> I<newname>

Renames the list.

=item B<set> I<flag> [I<flag>...]

Changes one of the Moira list flags.

=over 4

=item B<active>/B<inactive>

Marks a list as active or not. Inactive lists are not propagated
to fileservers and mailhubs.

=item B<public>/B<private>

Marks a list as private or public. Public lists are lists into
which any user in the system may add themselves.

B<Note:> do not make any lists which serve as ACLs public.

=item B<visible>/B<hidden>

Marks a list as visible or hidden. Hidden lists have information
about them available only to members of the list and information
about other members only available by the owners and membership ACL.

=item B<mailing>/B<non-mailing>

Marks whether this list should be propagated to the mailhub and serve
as a mailing list.

=item B<afs>/B<non-afs>

Marks whether this list should be an AFS group.

=item B<nfs>/B<non-nfs>

Marks whether this list should be a Unix group, which is required for access
control on NFS servers. Note that due to Hesiod limitations, this does not
work well, and if user exceeds a certain amount of groups they are in, the
rest of the groups are truncated.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<mrtools(1)>, L<blanche(1)>




